.TH offsite-cert 8  "Mon, 02 Oct 2023 16:23:26 +0200" "Version 1.0" "System management commands"

.SH NAME

offsite-cert \- download ssl certificates from external sites

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B offsite-cert
[\fB\-\-help\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION

Sometimes an internal site - a site not reachable from the public internet -
still needs a LetsEncrypt certificate. Being internal prevents it from using
the
.B well-known uri
method for domain validation. It cannot place a file that can be verified by
LetsEncrypt on its site. Under normal circumstances the
.B dns
method could be used for such purposes. But that's not always feasible as
many dns providers cannot restrict their credentials to a specific domain.
Giving the providers credentials to the internal site would enable it to
manipulate many other domains. Here
.B offsite-cert
come to the rescue and delegates the certificate retrieval to an external
website.
.PP

This external website must be reachable from the public internet. It therefore
can use the
.B well-known uri
method of LetsEncrypt and does not need credentials for a dns provider.
The external website must have a public dns record point to its server. It then
can use one of the multitude of LetsEncrypt clients to get a certificate. This
is basically just a standard setup like for many of the myriad webservers on the
web. The certificate and its chain of signers are then delivered with every call
to the external site.
.PP

.B offsite-cert
uses standard openssl tools to retrieve the certificate file and place it
on the internal site. The internal site now takes advantage of the standard
LetsEncrypt certificate, without having either, a public exposure or access to
the dns.
.PP

Of course there's some additional configuration needed for this setup. First of
all two different dns records must be provided, depending on the location of the
dns client. Any client on the public internet must get the address of the proxy
webserver that takes care of retrieving the LetsEncrypt certificate. Any client
on the internal network must get the address of the internal server. E.g.:
.PP

.RS
 \- 1.2.3.4        # public address
 \- 192.168.0.10   # internal address
.RE
.PP

Secondly the private key of the external webserver must be copied over manually
to the internal webserver. That's because the internal server needs the private
key that matches the certificate retrieved by
.BR offsite-cert .
As the private key is the
.I crown jewel
of any encryption, this process is not automated by now. In any case the admin
has to take care that the private key is installed correctly on the internal
webserver and not leaked to untrusted parties.
.PP

.B offsite-cert
is usually meant to run on a server being invoked by a cron job. It can however
be invoked manually as well. This might be for testing the setup or initializing
any new domains.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-\-help
Show a small help text and exit the program with EXIT STATUS zero.

.SH FILES

.TP
/etc/offsite-cert/offsite-cert.conf
General configuration file. See the file itself for possible options.

.TP
/etc/offsite-cert/domains
List of domain certificates to retrieve. See the file itself for how it has to
be formatted.

.SH EXIT STATUS

.B offsite-cert
returns an exit status of zero (0) if it ran successfully otherwise it the
exit status is bigger than zero.

.SH AUTHOR

Holger Böhnke (offsite-cert@biz.amarin.de)
